Good evening. Welcome. Tonight with Iowa and New Hampshire fast approaching with Sarah Palin entering stage right. And Hillary Clinton facing challenges including big new questions about her e-mails, with a self-proclaimed socialist rising and a guy name bush struggling with so many strange and captivating developments that we all seem to be talking about.

We're devoting the entire hour tonight to precisely that, a conversation with the people were right in the middle of all. Joining us, CNN Political Commentator's Amanda Carpenter and Peter Barnhart. She's a former communications director for Senator Ted Cruz. He's a contributor at The Atlantic. Also CNN Senior Legal Analyst Jeffrey Toobin. New York Times Op-Ed Columnist, Frank Bruni. CNN Political Commentator Tara Setmayer and who worked as communications director for Republican Congressman Dana Rohrabacher and CNN Chief Political Analyst Gloria Borger.

The first topic tonight, Sarah Palin endorsing Donald Trump and campaigning for him today after a short delay to deal with their son's legal difficulties, which she talks about on the campaign trail. We'll show you that.

Good evening, 6:00 P.M. here in a very chilly Las Vegas, odds are by this time tomorrow night millions of viewers will be watching the Top Republican Presidential candidates on stage at the Venetian Hotel and Casino which is behind me explaining what makes them uniquely suited to becoming America's next Commander-In-Chief. That of course is the focus on tomorrow's CNN debate National Security.

We have new polling tonight on how GOP voters already ranked the candidates. We also have the man they're hoping to follow in the job making National Security news today meaning with these top commanders then delivering an up beat message on the war against ISIS.

Well it goes without saying that most Republicans do not believe President Obama's strategy succeeding as for who they believe can do better that is reflected in the new poll which is why we begin the hour with CNN Chief National Correspondent, John King breaking it all down by the numbers.

Let's take star with this one, Anderson, it's a Reuters poll that looked at all the Presidential candidates. Democrats and Republicans and Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton were tied at 23 percent. Bernie Sanders was actually next at nine, Marco Rubio at five. This is when Americans were asked, all the voters were asked about all of the candidates. But of course, it's a Republican Debate you're there in Vegas for. And what do the Republican voters think about the candidates?

By a big margin in our CNN polling Donald Trump is viewed as the candidate who can best handle ISIS, 46 percent, 15 percent for Ted Cruz and you see Rubio, Carson and Bush. No secret why this is happening. You just heard the President while Donald Trump has clarity when he speak, he said he was Hillary bomb the bleep out of ISIS. He has said at the President, let Syrian refugees in. He would kick them out and of course most recently Anderson. He has proposed this provocative ban on Muslims entering into the United States. So at the moment telling in to the debate Trump has a clear lead among Republicans on who is toughest against ISIS.

It is a Republican Debate. A Republican primary he is running in right now, the Republican nomination he seeks and six in 10 of Republicans support the idea of banning Muslims, 38 percent oppose it. So on that debate stage tomorrow night, when Jeb Bush says you're wrong, when Marco Rubio says you're wrong, guess what Donald Trump can say, you're with President Obama, I'm comfortable where I am.

As you have the debate tomorrow nigh focusing on National Security issues, National Security Terrorism in Iowa is now the number one issue. The economy and jobs for months has been number one, post Paris, post San Bernardino heading into our final debate of the year. Look at this, terrorism, now 30 percent of Iowa Republican say that's the top issue, and Foreign Policy is third at 13 percent. Trump leads on terrorism, Cruz leads in Iowa in Foreign Policy, a nice issue to debate tomorrow night.

I think they have been coming after each other, you know, Ted Cruz has been going after Marco Rubio an immigration calling him soft on that where as Marco, Chris Christie, Jeb Bush have bee after Ted Cruz on National Security the national security vote.

We haven't see it have make a dent of Ted Cruz so far, you know, it's not -- look at these poll numbers, he is number two when it comes to who can handle the National Security Issues. I agree with Michael. I think that, you know, at some point, at some point we're going to need specifics. But right now what people are looking for is a contrast with a President Obama who Republicans view as weak, as pussy footed, as you know talking a very low talk deliberative. They want somebody with bluster. They want somebody but strength that project strength, that looks like they're going to, you know, be the leader of the free world. And that is what they're seeing on somebody like a Donald Trump or a Ted Cruz, despite the lack of specifics.
Well and then I think I'd say something about this Republican Party. Look, if you're a Democrat and watching this, an independent and you're watching this. You're seeing something very bizarre. It seems that Republicans are chasing themselves off a cliff.

A leader describes a solution. At demagogue describes a problem and blames somebody. Trump is a demagogue. He is describing the problem very well then he blames somebody. The only he'd be leading though are other Republicans who then start to mock. It is where about imitate him in this sort of tougher and tougher position against Muslims.

I think it's very, very dangerous. I have said before as a Democrat I used to love to see Trump say this crazy stuff, and it's great, he is ruining the Republicans. I think he may be poisoning the overall electorate. I am afraid you're going to start seeing other people running for office saying these sorts of things against Muslims when a fact only a microscopic minority of Muslim are a part of any of this stuff. 1.6 billion innocent but being blamed by someone like him. I'm sorry.

Just after 9:00 p.m. here as well as outside Charleston, South Carolina, that's where Donald Trump at a campaign rally on the World War II carrier Yorktown, talked about his new plan to block any and every Muslim from entering the United States.

Tonight, Donald Trump justifying the plan that would apply to immigrants, refugees, even tourists and it's drawing fire from across the political spectrum including Former Vice President Dick Cheney who told conservative talk show host Hugh Hewitt that a "goes against everything we stand for and believe in." CNN Senior Washington Correspondent Jeff Zeleny is traveling with the Trump campaign joins us now. So, I know Trump wrapped up the rally a short time ago. How is the new proposal being received by his supporters?

Well, Anderson, in a word it's being received very well by most of his supporters. When he talked about it tonight, he got cheers and applause of this and when you talk to these voters, people are afraid and frightened by what's happened in the country, particularly in the wake of San Bernardino.

Donald Trump knows this. He knows that he is tapping into something that's very real particularly among his base so he knows exactly what he's doing here politically speaking at least but I was struck by some of the shadowy language, the dark language. You know, he said at one point it's only going to get worse and worse, folks. We're going to have a lot more World Trade Centers. He left that language hanging in the room but take a listen to how he actually announced his Muslim plan. He actually read his paper statement. Let's listen.

That was getting a lot of pushback here from Former Vice President Cheney, also obviously the folks who are running against him from the GOP, also I understand that South Carolina and some early -- some other early states.

No question, Anderson. Across the board, condemnation and at least disagreement with this. The state party chairs and all the three early states all condemn this. The Iowa GOP chair said it betrays the constitution. The South Carolina Republican Party chairman said it sends shivers down my back. The New Hampshire chair called it unrepublican, unconstitutional and un-American. But to all of that insight, Donald Trump had three words. He said there's too much political correctness out there. He says, "I don't care."

Good evening. Thanks for watching. 

Tonight the question is could we seeing the first signs of the next big shift in the presidential campaign? When Republicans took the stage in Boulder, Colorado last night momentum seemed to be shifting for the two front runners and fading for some of the others. Today, we got our first sense of how the debate affected the larger dynamic. 

We also got a chance to take a hard look on whether the event was conducted fairly and on the flip side, whether candidates answered key questions factually. All that ahead tonight. 

But first, three key candidates all holding events today.

Yes, this was an exchange, Anderson, that really backfired on him. He took Rubio to task for missing Senate votes. Rubio responded with a very strong rhetorical and Bush was sort of caught flat-footed really unable to respond. Jeb Bush I think certainly a little frustrated and humbled today acknowledging that his debate performance was not great, but he still stood by his critique.

Hey, good evening. 

There is a lot of politics ahead including Donald Trump's latest remarks about Afghanistan and Joe Biden's new account, the advice he gave about the Osama bin Laden raid. 

I want to now talk now on the phone to Congressman Peter King who is joining us. 

Congressman, what do you think about what Paul Ryan is saying he is willing to do?

I would strongly support Paul Ryan as speaker. I think the conditions he laid out are done in a very positive way. Basically Paul is saying that he said he would be -- is willing to take arrows in the chest, but not in the back. He wants to have united party. He said he is going to buy in, that's where he wants. Everyone is going to buy into with him. And he will be looking for endorsement of all the major groups, including the Tuesday group, which is more moderate, the liberal group, and the freedom caucus. And he said that the endorsement of all of them. Otherwise he said he would be the third log on the fire, and he doesn't want that. He wants -- if he's going to be the speaker, it probably will be the end of his political career. He is not probably won't go further than this. He wants to make it worthwhile. He believes in the cause rather than in just the political gamesmanship. He also indicated he does not want to spend as much time fund-raising. It is going to be policy oriented and also selling the Republican message.

Basically Paul said all of that tonight. And I think probably it was his preference not to take it, but on the other hand he said that so many people have in effect told him that he's the only one that could unite the party. He believes if the party keeps going the way it is, it is going to be virtually guarantee a Democratic election, the president in 2016 and maybe the loss of the house and the Senate. So he was willing to do it. But again, he said his family does come first and also he wants a party united behind him. He's not going in for the title, just for the perks, whatever they are, and it's because he believes in the cause, you know, before the political ambition. 

And I believe Paul. Other people say that, OK, that's standard rhetoric. No, with Paul, it's real. I'm not close to Paul Ryan, but I admire him. I know him and I have tremendous respect for him.

Paul Ryan is a good choice. He is of good temperament. He has youth on his side. He is a relatively good messenger. She is one of those in the house, one of the few who has adept to taking something policy wise very far in the weeds and presenting it in lay man's terms. And he's been grouped a while by John Boehner. And of course, he has the approval of what grassroots would call the establishment. 

But that being said where you have the freedom caucus and where you have the grassroots, they're concerned about Paul Ryan's past, particularly the fact that he's really never met a bailout that he hasn't like, he supported Tarp, he supported Medicare part D, no child left behind, and it's the company with whom he has kept this entire time. While John Boehner has been the face, make no mistake it's been Paul Ryan that's been behind the scenes. 

And so there are some concerns that they have. If he will not do it without their consent that could be the holdout. And I'm pretty sure that they will probably stick with principle unless there can be arms twisted.

Tonight, I shared with my colleagues what I think it will take to have a unified conference and for the next speaker to be successful. Basically, I made a few requests for what I think is necessary. And I asked my colleagues to hear back from them by the end of the week. 

First, we need to move from an opposition party to being a proposition party. Because we think the nation is on the wrong past, we have a duty to show the right one. Our next speaker has to be a visionary one. 

Second, we need to update our house rules so that everyone can be a more effective representative. This is, after all, the people's house. We need to do this as a team and it needs to include fixes that ensure that we do not experience constant leadership challenges in crises. 

Third, we as a conference should unify now and not after a divisive speaker election. 

And the last point, last point is personal. I cannot and will not give up my family time. I may not be on the road as often as previous speakers, but I pledge to try and make up for it with more time communicating our vision, our message. What I told members is if you can agree to these requests, and if I can truly be a unifying figure, then I will gladly serve. And if I'm not unifying, that will be fine as well. I will be happy to stay where I am at the ways and means committee. 

Here is how I see it. It is our duty to serve the people the way they deserve to be served. It is our duty to make the tough decisions this country needs to get our nation back on track. The challenges we face today are too difficult and too demanding to turn our backs and walk away. 

Global terror, war on multiple fronts, a government grown unaccountable, unconstitutional, out of touch. Persistent poverty, a sluggish economy, flat wages, a skyrocketing debt, but we cannot take on these challenges alone. 

Now more than ever we must work together. All of us are representatives of the people. All people. We have been entrusted by them to lead. And yet the people we serve, they do not feel that we are delivering on the job that they hired us to do. We have become the problem. If my colleagues entrust me to be the speaker, I want us to become the solution. 

One thing I've learned from my upbringing in Janesville is not is ever solved by blaming people. We can blame the president, we can blame the media, and that's kind of fun sometimes. We can point fingers across the aisle. We can blame each other. We can dismiss our critics and criticism as unfair. People don't care about blame. People don't care about effort. People care about results. Results that are measurable, results that are meaningful. Results that make a difference in their daily lives. 

I want to be clear about this. I think that we are still an exceptional country with exceptional people, and a republic clearly worth fighting for. The American idea, it's not too late to save, but we are running out of time. 

And make no mistake, I believe that the ideas and principles of results-driven common-sense conservative are the keys to a better tomorrow, a tomorrow in which all of God's children will be better off than they are today. 

The idea that the role of the federal government is not for facilitate dependency, but to create an environment of opportunity for everyone. The idea that government should do less and do it better. The idea that those who serve should say what they mean and mean what they say. The principle that we should all determine the course of our own lives instead of ceding that right to those who think they are better than the rest of us. Yes, we will stand and fight when we must, and surely this presidency will require that. 

A commitment to natural rights, a commitment to common, to compassion, when rooted in genuine conviction and principle is a commitment to conservatism. 

Let me close by saying I considered to do this with reluctance, and I mean that in the most personal of ways. Like many of you, Jenna and I have children who are in the formative foundational years of their lives. I generally worry about the consequences that my agreeing to serve will have on them.

Paul Ryan there expressing his thoughts on what it's going to take for him to assume this position, saying essentially he needs all the various faction within the Republican Party in Congress and Capitol Hill to be behind him doing this. Back with talk radio host Dana Loesch, host of "Dana on the Blaze," also joining us is CNN political commentator and Republican strategist Ana Navarro. And CNN's senior Washington correspondent Jeff Zeleny, who's covered Congressman Ryan's career for years. Jeff, let's start with you. I guess not a huge surprise that he's agreed finally to do this. There was an awful lot of pressure on him. What do you make of his remarks tonight?

Good evening. Thanks for joining us tonight. 

Another sign of political outsiders are in and insiders are in trouble. There is Donald Trump and Carson. And over on the Democratic side, Vermont senator, Bernie Sanders. Big news for all of them tonight. He has been drawing big crowds, Bernie Sanders has some surprising support in his race with Hillary Clinton. And there is fresh evidence in the form of new polling tonight. 

Chief national correspondent John King lays out the state of the race right now on both side by the numbers. 

John, Bernie Sanders within striking distance of Hillary Clinton. Break down the numbers for us? 


Well, remember, Hillary Clinton remembers she went off the rails in 2007, 2008. At the moment, Hillary Clinton still leading in Iowa. This is the new Iowa poll for the Des Moines Register Bloomberg, 37 percent. But Bernie Sanders is now within striking distance at 30 percent. 

Why is this significant, number one, it is obvious, the math, it is within seven points. Number two, Hillary Clinton now below 50 for the first time. So there has to be jitters in the Clinton campaign. Sanders leads in New Hampshire. He is now in striking distance in Iowa. 

It is interesting when you look at this poll because Democrats, this is good news for Hillary Clinton, 61 percent of Democrats in Iowa say the whole email controversy event is not important. Now you can make the argument that means 37, 38 percent say it is at least somewhat important. But six in ten Democrats say, it is not that important to them. 

And this is very encouraging, Anderson, in this poll for Bernie Sanders. Ninety six percent of Sanders voters say they are supporting him because they like him and his idea. Only two percent say this a rejection of Hillary Clinton. So the Democrats who are of for Bernie Sanders aren't doing it anti-Clinton mood. Just one more point as we look at this. It is a very close race. The

Democrats in Iowa, they like their field. Use the president is, 88 percent favorable among Democrats. Joe Biden, Hillary Clinton, and Bernie Sanders all pretty good favorability. Clinton has the highest negatives at 19. But if you look at this, and consider the part of political world we live in, Iowa Democrats are largely happy with their choices.

And when it comes to the Republican field, Ben Carson is now giving Trump a run for the money.

This is a wild, wild ride on the Republican side. And it is anti-establish and outsiders. Two polls to look at. This is "the Des Moines Register" poll. Donald Trump at 23. Ben Carson, at close second at 18. Then you had Ted Cruz, Scott Walker, Jeb Bush. Donald Trump leading on that one. Remember the 23 and the 18. 

But again, two guys who had never held political office leading the race. Brand new out today is the Monmouth University poll. That one actually shows Dr. Carson in a tie with Donald Trump. 23-23. And in third place in this poll, another Republican who never held political office. 

So if you look at this, this isn't rocket science. Republicans in Iowa are looking for something different. They're looking for somebody who has never held political office. And that's the hurting to guys like Governor Bush and Governor Walker.

Again, this is fascinating because a lot of the political pundits that said the more people hear Donald Trump, there is vulgar language, there is crassness, his refusal to answer some questions to get specific. Are people going to move away from Donald Trump? And they are going to say forget about it. 

Well, look at this. In Iowa poll, his favorability rating at61 percent. Six in ten Republicans, likely caucus goers favorable, 27 percent not favorable. That's dramatic. To do that in today's politics to go 35 percent approval in May to 61 percent now is a huge jump. Why is it happening, Anderson? Let me tell you quickly why. Because Republicans in Iowa are literally mad as hell. Nine in ten say they're mad as hell at the government, 96 percent say they are mad as hell the president, 62 percent say they are mad as hell at Wall Street, 75 percent are mad as hell at their own Republican leadership within Congress, 91 percent are mad as hell at politics in general. 

Republicans in Iowa have had it and they are look for somebody to come to this town and blow it up. 

Let's talk more about the numbers with CNN political commentator Donna Brazile. She is a Democratic strategist and vice chair of the DNC voter project, also Jeffrey Lord who served as Ronald Reagan's White House political director and serves now as CNN commentator. He is Trump supporter. Also with us tonight, Amanda Carpenter, former communication director for Senator Ted Cruz. 

Amanda, I mean, look at this number. Donald Trump, yet Ben Carson, Republican side, very outside the traditional mold. Not governors. Not senators. How concerned should the establishment be at this point?

Well, the way I view the polls right now, Anderson, is that the people getting in the top tier, are who voters want to hear more from at this point in time. They're saying Donald Trump, Ben Carson, Carly Fiorina, Ted Cruz, we want to hear more from you. I don't think it is an actual vote at this moment. 

But what I do think is interesting is that for the most part, Trump, Carson, Fiorina, largely not vetted. Haven't been in the public political eye that long. Whereas my former boss, Ted Cruz has. And people are familiar with their positions. 

So I am very curious to see once people like Donald Trump stake out policy position have plans to defend how they fare in the polls once they're put in that position.

At this point in, in the political season, you know, voters are window shopping. They're taking a look at all of these candidates. They're going to rallies. They're going to union halls. They're listening to all of these candidates to find out if they look them. I mean they're dating Anderson. What's wrong with dating at this, at this stage of the season? I mean, in a few months, five months from tomorrow night, they'll actually have to stand up and proclaim their support, that's like a, you know, announcing that you are going to, you know, get engaged. 

So I think it is very important to understand that Bernie Sanders is drawing a lot of first time voters. A lot of people are interested not just in his ideas, but, you know his enthusiasm, the fact that he wants to start a political revolution to take big money out of politics, to revolutionize you know the way students get their loans and pay them back. He has a real serious plan for the future. And I'm not surprised Democrats are taking an extended window shopping view of Bernie Sanders. 

Well, most of the candidates, they have gone harder Trump has backfired tremendously. You look at Rick Perry, gave a big speech against hi, Rand Paul tried it, Jeff tried it. This is the wrong move. I think this explicit. We had this huge conflict within the Republican Party between the grassroots and the establishment. This is continuing to play out. And until this typical establishment like candidates to learn that they need to pay attention to the fears and concerns and hopes and dreams that grassroots Americans have rather than trying to shut it up and ignore it, until they learn that lesson, the Republican Party as a whole will never be successful. 

Donald Trump unleashed in 140 characters or less. His tweets are often sarcastic, hateful, and downright nasty. Most are directed at his opponents. 

Jeb Bush never uses his last name on television, signage, materials, et cetera. Is he ashamed of the name Bush? A pretty sad situation. Go, Jeb. Congrats at Lindsay Graham SC, you just got four points in your home state of SC. Far better than zero nationally. You are only 26 points behind me. 

And after Democratic candidate Bernie Sanders lost control of his microphone to black lives matters protesters, Trump tweeted this big. How is Bernie Sanders going to defend our country if he can't defend his own microphone? Very sad. 

Trump went after the president during the Ebola scare. I am starting to think there is something seriously wrong with President Obama's mental health. Why won't he stop the flights? Psycho. In another tweet he asked if the president is stupid or arrogant. 

Trump has nearly four million followers on Twitter. So his tweets hardly go unnoticed. His favorite word when firing off these zingers seem to be dumb and dopey. He uses the word great a lot too. But mainly about himself and things he likes. 

Trump goes after the media too retweeting this about FOX News' Megyn Kelly after she returned from vacation. The bimbo back in town. I hope not for long. 

This about Anderson Cooper. What a waste of time being interviewed by Anderson Cooper. When he puts on really stupid talking head like Tim O'Brien, dumb guy with no clue. 

Pundits are a target too. Charles Krauthammer in the line of fire with Trump calling him a totally overrated clown who speaks without knowing facts. 

And this tweet, one of the dumber and least respected of political pundits is Chris Solis "the Washington Post" at the fix. Moron hates my poll numbers. 

Celebrities are also fair game in Trump's twitter verse. Trump tweeted this last year about singer Katy Perry. Katy Perry must have been drunk when she married Russell Brand. Brand boldly fired back. @realDonaldTrump, are you drunk when you write these tweets? Or does that foam you spray on your bald head make you high? 

Whatever it is that inspires Trump's tweets, a "Washington Post" headline summed it up this way. Your next president, Donald Trump, basically tweets like a 12-year-old. 
It shows Donald Trump for really who he is. He is a bully. He is, likes to trash talk people and particularly against women. He goes for the gutter. I mean if you look at his speeches. A lot of time, stream of consciousness, kind of rallying same old things. These are things he chooses to say. They're not staff writing for him. This is him, his own personal thoughts. And I certainly don't think this is the kind of language that is suitable for a president and maybe people find it cathartic. It proves that he will shake up Washington.
Hey, good evening. Thanks for joining us. 

Tonight barely a day after their dueling town halls in New Hampshire a new boost for Donald Trump and something of body blow for Jeb Bush. Last night on stage, in the town of Derry, Mr. Trump openly taunted the former GOP frontrunner about his campaign event. 

Well, today, the wake-up call just might have arrived. And here it is. New polling from Quinnipiac University showing Donald Trump now out in front in Florida. Governor Bush's home state and one of the Bush campaign's primary fire walls. Mr. Trump is also outpolling, Florida senator Marco Rubio who is tied for third with Ben Carson. 

Now, bearing in mind that his lead is within the margin of error, and of course, it is only August. That said it is fair to say that few people expected this. 

Tom Foreman has been looking at the numbers behind this, behind the Florida surprise as well why the state matters so much. Take a look. 

And I think, you know, Jeb is a guy who does not live in a bubble. He doesn't surround himself by yes men. He surround by a lot of women who tell him no. And you can do better. And you know, I think that he has heard the message loud and clear. Frankly I think every candidate has heard the message loud and clear that voters are sending by supporting Donald Trump. They are mad as hell and they don't want to take it anymore. They're tired of politics as usual. And they want to see somebody in their candidates somebody that is going to fight for them. 

I think you are going to see that from Jeb Bush. Are you going to see him breathe fire? No. That's not what he does. But I think you are going to see an energetic Jeb Bush because Frank is right. It is one thing to be in a two person field. Four person field is a completely different animal to be in a 17 person field where substance isn't just enough. You have to have personality and energy. And I think he has heard it and I think you are going to see it. 

Jeb Bush is a guy who hears critiques and learns from his mistakes. 

Jeb Bush, at least as I saw this when Donald Trump got into the race, there was one particular interview that I recall with Jeb Bush and Sean Hannity. And when the name Donald Trump was mentioned, the look of utter contempt on his face and dismissal was pretty hard to miss. And I thought to myself at the time, you know, that is a serious attitude mistake that if and when Donald Trump catches on here people are going to remember that kind of thing. And I think they do remember that. And I think that they associate this, you know, President Bush, 43, left with a 22 percent approval rating. I think there is that problem. As Frank is saying, this sort of low wattage tortoise approach here that I think is really doing him some damage. And frankly, I am not sure that he can get out of that.

And you look at the poll numbers that just put on the screen if we could put those back on the screen. I mean, choice for president in 2016, Florida voters. Clinton 41 percent. Trump, 40, 43 percent -- Jeff?

And you know, I think that if Joe Biden gets in, we are going to see a lot of the same thing on the other side. One of the things from the poll that is very interesting is that Joe Biden does just does well if not better than Hillary Clinton in some of those swing states and he hasn't even announced. So you know, I think Hillary Clinton has a much bigger problem. Democrats have a much bigger problem than Republicans do right now. 

Republicans have a, you know, bounty of good candidates with stark positions, contrasts to choose from. Democrats, they put all their eggs in one basket. And that basket isn't looking too good. 

Well Jeb is a very low energy person. So he can sit around a table all day long with one general and talk and talk and, you know, but I see that general being grilled by you. And when I say, I watch on television, I do. And I watch in "Time" magazine. And I watch in "The New York Times" and the "Wall Street Journal." I read all of them a lot. And I get my views from, you know, from the media, a lot of the views. And you know, frankly a lot of people do. The views that you will see during those 10 and 15 minute segments or doing reading story are not a lot different than Jeb sitting around with a policy group, if he really has such a thing. 

You know, it sounds good. I can say that too, you know. I was an excellent student at the best school. And I could also say, well, I have a great policy group and we sit around. I mean, I wonder whether or not Jeb actually has that. 

People are talking about diplomacy or tone. You know, Bush brings up tone all the time, tone. We need strong tone. We're too far behind. We are behind. We are not wing, you know. If we are winning we can soften it up. But you look at Putin. Can't stand Obama. And Obama can't stand him, in all fairness. But we don't get along with anybody anymore. 

Hillary Clinton was the worst secretary of state in the history of the country. The world came apart under her reign as secretary of state. Clinton had a lot of problems with the Monicas of the world, and had he not had those problems he would have had a pretty good presidency. Not a great one, but a pretty solid presidency. But that was a disaster and a tremendous distraction. 

Jeb Bush puts his friend in charge of his Pac and they don't talk. I guarantee you they talk all the time. And he has got $114 million sitting there that he is going to try to build up his own image which is not easy to do. And he is going to work hard, as is Hillary Clinton, they all have their friend rung their PACs. They're all breaking the law in my opinion. Because if you tell me that Jeb and the various other people that have set up PACs, and I'm not even talking about Jeb, he is not even second in the polls for the most part. We have people that are far ahead of Jeb. But the people that set up PACs are all talking. They put their best friend in there. They put people, lawyers, they put all sorts of people in there that are friendly to them. Well that's not supposed to happen. 

Hey, Anderson. It seems like Republican voters, registered voters, on every issue are increasingly falling in line behind Donald Trump. Who should handle the economy, 45 percent say it should be Donald Trump. Who should handle immigration issues, 44 percent say Donald Trump. Who should handle ISIS and problems with terrorism, 32 percent say Donald Trump. 

This is also turned into a rout on the favorability question here. Fifty seven percent of Republican men now saying they have a favorable opinion of Trump, 60 percent of Republican women saying they have a favorable opinion of Donald Trump. And that is what has produced the very number you mentioned a moment ago, Anderson. The idea that Trump is actually now at 24 percent in terms of people who would vote for him right now in the horse race

You know, everyone thought he would be. But I want to you look at something here. If I bring in a graph her and we talk about back in May when he was just saying, he might run for office. Back then, only three percent of people out there said they would vote for him. Everybody else was in front of him basically. Then he actually announced, and remember, he made the explosive comments about people coming across the Mexican border saying that a lot of these people were drug dealers and rapists. Everyone said that would be poison to his campaign. Look what happened to the numbers. It jumped up higher to 12 percent. Suddenly, he was in the game. Then he made those comments about John McCain saying he was only a war hero because he got captured. Everyone said that's the end of the Trump campaign. Look what happened. The numbers jumped again and he started leading the race  . 

And now, he has made these comments about a breast feeding woman being disgusting and all the things they talk about women out there that people said, again, is going to poison his campaign and look at the latest numbers.

Now, he has jumped to a commanding lead. There is one thing here, though, Anderson, I think everyone has to bear in mind, one other number, though. When you talk about the general election, actually winning the White House, and you ask those very same Republican who are so excited about Donald Trump right now, would you have a better chance of winning that race with someone other than Trump, big number here, 58 percent say yes. For all good news in here for Trump, that is bad news for this campaign.

Now, I'm just curious because I don't think he is going to make it all the way. I don't think he is going to be the nominee. As I have said, God is good to me but not that good. What is going to croak him? As Tom pointed out, you pointed out. First off, he was the king of birtherism. And that seems to be OK with Republicans. Did he accuse Mexican immigrants, some of them, if being rapist and murderers and all of that nonsense. The attack of FOX News host for doing her job and asking tough question in the debate. He attack John McCain for being a POW. 

None of that hurt. What is going to hurt? That's what-I don't want - I just can't wait to find out. What on earth is going to hurt this guy among if they love all that, what will it take to bring him back down to earth?

That's right. It can't be good news for the campaign. They have decided to sort of wage a tortoise and hare campaign. They are the tortoise. They want to kind of go about their own way. They have given some policy speeches. 

I think we are going to see something of a shift in the next weeks as their super Pac right as Bush's super Pac starts to spend $10 million on ads in these early states. And in that way, they want to get the message out about Jeb Bush that he is conservative too. 

And I think their bet is that so far Trump hasn't been able to fall on his own weight. It is true that people who tried to deck him, people like Rand Paul haven't had much success. But if they start to make case Jeb Bush's campaign about Jeb Bush, that he is not only electable, he is also conservative, then maybe that will start to turn the tide a bit. But we will have to see. So far, as Paul said, nothing really has worked in terms of sort of putting, you know, putting cold water on this Trump bump.

Yes, Amanda, it is fascinating because I mean, people say well, he doesn't give specifics so now he starts to do that. I mean, as much as he does, he says he wants, you know, to take the oil from Iraq. He wants to bring in oil companies. He basically wants to take oil and bomb the hell out of ISIS. He says, you know, that he gave out his immigration plan which was really pilloried by many GOP candidates and many in the Republican Party. And a lot of people said look, it is just not, it just doesn't make sense. It is just not really feasible. And yet you look at the numbers. The voters not only like him, they trust him. They trust him to handle the economy, to tackle ISIS, address illegal immigration. I mean, I haven't heard one military official saying that his military plan against ISIS is actually even viable. Lindsey Graham I think called it insane. Do you think none of the other candidates even come close to matching him on those issues?

Hey, good evening. Thanks for joining us. 

Tonight, more signs that the Trump campaign has staying power. More trouble for the Republican establishment. National polling from FOX News showing a 2:1 Trump lead over the nearest rival, 2:1 with neurosurgeon and fellow political outsider Ben Carson. He is followed by Ted Cruz. Jeb Bush, now at number four. 

And there are other signs that the Trump campaign is very serious about wining in Iowa and nationwide which we will explore tonight including this. For weeks now, Donald Trump has been saying that he can solve the illegal immigration problem and make Mexico foot a big part of the bill for it. He just hasn't said now. Well, now he has. And one of his proposals would change a pillar of the constitution that if you are born in this country you are a citizen. 

Over the weekend his campaign put out a 14-point plan including eliminating birth right citizenship, which would require changing the constitution. Some other key points. Tripling the number of ICE officers to enforce immigration laws. Cutting off federal money to so-called sanctuary cities. And nationwide e-verify system for employers to check up on immigration status of would-be hires. And most notably making the Mexican government pay for the fence or wall along the northern border. If they don't, the plan calls for seizing billions in money that immigrant workers send back to Mexico every year. Campaigning in Iowa over the weekend, Mr. Trump downplayed the fact it has taken a while for him to come up with the details.

Hey, good evening. Thanks for joining us. 

Tonight Jeb Bush getting a lot of buzz saying that when it comes to security in Iraq his brother's mission quote "was accomplished." We'll talk about the fallout shortly. 

We begin, though, with rising anticipation, growing suspense and very high stakes, all connected to a single answer from a single person that could turn the 2016 Democratic presidential race upside down. Yes or no, will vice president Joe Biden run? He has kept a fairly low profile publicly since the funeral of Reverend Clementa Pinkney back in June and before that the funeral of son Beau whose dying wish was said to be that his dad make one last run for president.

Well, we know that he has been reaching out to people. And that's really the most that we have heard on this for a long time. Because people have been talking about this for a while. You ask people close to Biden, is he running or not? And really, the most that they have been able to say for a very long time is, well, we don't know. He himself is trying to make that decision. And as you mentioned, it comes at an extremely difficult time for him personally. It's wrenching. I mean, people that know him say he is still grieving his son. And they feel bad for him that he is having to make such a weighty decision right now. 

But we know that he has been making a few phone calls to key people, supporters, looking for advice, trying to get in his own mind, what exactly this run would look like. Would it be worth it for him politically and personally? And so, this gives us an indication that this decision is coming soon. Maybe not tomorrow, maybe not in a week, it could take a few more weeks. But really now is the time. 

There are some people who are questioning because of that, is it too late in the game to get in now? But that doesn't mean this isn't going to happen. I think it is hard to read in too much now that he is making the calls. Will he or won't he? It seems like this is still very much something that he is wrestling with internally. But that mystery could be solved in a matter of weeks. Probably at the most, Anderson. 

No, I do not think it is too late. I there is plenty of space and time for the vice president to make his decision. I know that he and Jill are working through this personal decision after Beau's passing. But if he decide to go he will win South Carolina. It is not just he feels that way. He has a broad base of support. Long standing, diverse group of business leaders, faith leaders, elected leaders who were ready for him to give the word. And we're ready to support him. 

And part of this week was us, you know, letting him know that. That well are ready when he is ready and encouraging him and helping him, how they talk and work through the decision.

Good evening. 9:00 P.M. here on the east coast and our first look at who voters in Iowa say they are supporting. The first CNN/ORC polling on the race there and another sign that for the moment Donald Trump continues to defy political gravity.

New Iowa results for Hillary Clinton as well a new polling for New Hampshire that may signal for her there as well.No, quite the contrary. A lot of people thought the controversial debate might hurt him with republican voters, maybe he said he might run as a third party candidate, showdown with Megyn Kelly -- 22 percent not only the elite in Iowa but the healthy elite. 14 percent for Ben Carson, second. If you're worried in Iowa, you're Scott Walker, 9 percent. He was leading before the debate now he's in third place in our poll.

Look at Jeb Bush falling down here to 5 percent and they will say in the Bush campaign, "We never though we're going to win Iowa." Still a trouble side for him.

A big winner out of the debate is Carly Fiorina up to fifth place now in Iowa. She was nowhere before the debate, Anderson. Ted Cruz also moving up a little bit in Iowa.

If you move this over here and you look, pre-debate, post-debate, again, Scott Walker was on top, now he's down here in third place. Jeb Bush was third, now down here at the middle of the PAC. Carson moves from fourth to second. And again, the big winner Carly Fiorina.

So if you look pre-debate and post-debate just like in 2012 a shake up in the field but Donald Trump not moving away many pandits thought. Why? He's getting 27 percent support from Iowa. Man, if there's one trouble sign in our poll, it's this. Only 15 percent of Iowa Republican women support Donald Trump. So a bit of a warning sign there but he's still on top by a big number.

They like him on the issues and they like him because he's a disruptive force in politics. Here's the biggest factor right here. Which Republican candidate most change Washington, shake things up here? 35 percent -- 35 point-gap over the next Republican for Donald Trump on who would be best in changing Washington.

Also a huge lead on who would be best on who would be best on the economy who would be best on immigration. These are huge issues for Republican voters. And despite so many polls showing he would lose to Hillary Clinton They still think in Iowa among Republicans that he's the most electable.

The Tea Party very important to debate's Donald Trump -- leads him on Tea Party voters, Ben Carson second. This is a huge trouble sign for Cruz and Walker. Yes, they're third and fourth. These two very much need the Tea Party to succeed in Iowa, right now, Donald Trump blocking their path.

Anderson, Hillary Clinton loves Iowa even though that was the state of her disappointment in 2008. Look at these brand new numbers especially given our conversation last time about New Hampshire. In Iowa, 50 percent for Hillary Clinton, 31 percent for Bernie Sanders. Iowa Democrats seems to be sending Joe Biden a message. He's spending the summer asking himself, "Should I get in late?" No clamoring for Joe Biden.

But this is a strong number for Hillary Clinton, 50 percent to 31 percent over Sanders, especially given -- remember, we just talked about it last night Bernie Sanders is plus seven in the State of New Hampshire.

And, she has a gender gap. She runs about even on Bernie Sanders among men. But look at this, nearly six in 10, Iowa Democratic women are voting for Hillary Clinton. The gender gap, a huge factor in her lead in Iowa at the moment moment, Anderson.

There are some trouble spots for Hillary and know the similar of what we see everywhere. Only 28 percent -- remember this is a poll of Iowa Democrats. Only 28 percent find her honest and trustworthy. That means 70 percent don't. As the e-mail investigation goes on the Justice Department in Capitol Hill, that's a number to keep an eye on.

And only 40 percent -- this is the empathy question -- which politician most understands the problem facing people like you? 40 percent back Hillary Clinton, that's about even with Bernie Sanders. So if there are weaknesses for Hillary Clinton, it's on trust and empathy, Anderson.

COOPER: And, John, thanks very much. Quite note, Jeb Bush has been speaking tonight at a townhall in North Las Vegas, Nevada. We'll be listening to see if he makes news there. We'll of course bring it to you if he does. We'll play some of that in the last hour.

You're exactly right. This is where Bill Clinton became the comeback kid by overcoming all of his problems with stories about his affairs and so forth. And this is what the beginning of the beginning for him in the nomination process in '92.

The answer to your question is that -- two things I think for Bernie Sanders in New Hampshire. One is he's almost a local. He's from Vermont so there's that connection there culturally and otherwise but also because historically people in New Hampshire whether they're Democrats, Republicans, Independents, they like to show other states and the media, the establishments that they're not going to be told who to pick. And I think that's a big part of what's going on here.

You know, certainly Hillary Clinton did well here in 2008 but it is a different time, it is a different era, and he is appealing to not just maybe Democrats but maybe because in New Hampshire you don't have to have party registrations. You could -- maybe some independent Republicans could go and vote for Bernie Sanders...

With Hillary Clinton -- well, with Hillary Clinton, you get a sense that people think they're going to see the next president of the United States. There's more infrastructure clear (ph0 the obviously their secret service involved. But I mean there's more of a campaign infrastructure, how people get invited. With Bernie Sanders, it's a protest rally. People are having fun. But the point of the campaign event is the campaign event it's not to see the particular candidate.

And I think Bernie Sanders accepts the premise. He accepts the premise that he is a representation of a lot of things. It's not about him. It's about not being for Hillary. It's about finally steaming up with the person who is a socialist or progressive values. There's a different mood there.

And as we head into the fall and the campaign gets more serious, Bernie Sanders is going to have to somehow flip the conversation to say, "No, I actually can be the nominee. This is how this would work."

Absolutely. No question because, you know, if joe Biden is seriously looking at this as we have every reason to believe he is, he's looking at it sayong "Well, wait a minute if Hillary Clinton is weak enough to allow all of these potential Democratic voters to get all excited about somebody who is not hillary Clinton, what about me? However, you know, Joe Biden is beloved among Democrats and even Republicans. I'm not sure he will fly as the alternative candidate. He is more establishment. He's different from Hillary Clinton but similar and that he's not going to be the person who's going to get the grassroots going as Bernie Sanders do...

Which candidate draws a bigger crowd, Hillary Clinton, Jeb Bush, or Donald Trump? The answer, Bernie Sanders by far. Saturday in Seattle, the Democratic presidential hopeful drew 15,000 people. The next day in Portland, an estimated 28,000. That's the biggest crowd for any candidate so far in the 2016 race. And the senator from Vermont has been gaining momentum.

A favorite supporter rallying cry is "Feel the Bern".

Look, Anderson, if I had told you four months ago that Bernie Sanders will be ahead in New Hampshire you would have laughed, right? This weekend, we had 17,000 people combined the three different rallies on the west coast. What's happening is people are responding to Bernie's message. They can't afford the high cost of college education, they see the growing gap between the rich and the poor, they see stagnant wages, and Bernie Sanders speaks to what they feel in their daily lives and that's what's happening in this campaign. People are responding to that.

Look, if we're going to keep talking about these issues that are important to people, you know, polls will go up and down. You know hundreds of thousands of people have sent money to Bernie Sanders. They are doing it because they're protesting. They're doing that because they want real change in United States and he embodies that and that's what their responding to.

So people from the beginning of this campaign have found reasons to say why he can't win, while he'll never breakthrough. He's cut Hillary Clinton's leading half in Iowa. He's ahead now in New Hampshire. We've seen polls out of places. Oregon is four points back. So this is the campaign on the move because it's a campaign about issues.

Well, they certainly will come around. And an issue to that, I would point out, there's been a number of polls done some by Quinnipiac and some battle ground states that show that he does as well or in some cases better than Secretary Clinton against Republicans.

So we're confident that once he has the nomination that he will be able to secure the White House. And the excitement that he is bringing to this campaign is going to help elect Democrats up and down the ballot.

There are others who have been comparing your candidate in some ways to Donald Trump. Both are saying they're kind of non- establishment candidates. Obviously Senator Sanders has had a long time in Washington. Others compare them Howard Dean and the kind of enthusiasm that Dean once brought to it. What do you make on both those comparisons?

Well, I think they're flawed. I worked with Bernie Sanders up and on for 30 years. And people see a man of conviction who was talking about the real economic hurt that they are feeling and they are responding to him, Anderson. That's what's happening here.

So he's not -- it's not -- he's not a reality show star. This is the real deal who speaking to the hurt that American families are feeling.

Well, I'm not really to offend people, Jake. That seems to be that every once in a while that will happen but I think I was, you know, mistreated a little bit but that's OK and, you know, I'm really honored. I'm honored by your call. And 22 percent that's a big number. It's a really big number. And so, it's a great honor. Thank you.

Good evening. Thanks for joining us. 

We begin tonight Keeping Them Honest with the debate, Donald Trump and the controversy over questions he was asked about his past comments about some women. A record 24 million people watched him and nine other Republicans on that stage last night in Cleveland. Eight times more viewers than the first debate of the 2012 campaign. And there's no denying a lot of that viewership was because Donald Trump was on that stage. Here's the exchange between Megyn Kelly and Trump that continues to reverberate today.

But the numbers also show this. They don't need to have women to vote. What happens is they need the base to vote. Mitt Romney lost because Republicans didn't vote. And what we really saw last night 24 million people saw Mr. Trump go after a woman, meaning he's probably the only one that's going to have the guts to go after Hillary Clinton. 

One of the reasons Mitt Romney lost is because Barack Obama won women by 11 points. Republicans need to convince more suburban married women who can vote Republican, convince more of them that they ought to vote Republican. And I would argue if you're sitting at home on the couch and you're a woman and you're watching Donald Trump and you watch the question from Megyn Kelly and then you heard him say to Megyn Kelly, you know, maybe I shouldn't be so nice to you, or something to that effect, that a lot of women are going to kind of say, whoa, that offends me. 

It goes without saying that last night's primetime debate got the lion's share of viewers, huge numbers. Donald Trump made the most headlines of the ten men on stage. Turns out though the earlier debate for the other seven candidates also spotlighted a candidate who is getting a lot of bounce today, or a lot of notice I should say at least from her performance.

We have to undo a whole set of things that President Obama has done to get at the heart of his disrespect and disregard for too many Americans. 

Here's the thing that I would ask Donald Trump in all seriousness. He is the party's front-runner right now and good for him. Since he has changed his mind on amnesty, on health care and on abortion, I would just ask, what are the principles by which he will govern? 

Hillary Clinton lies about Benghazi, she lies about emails, she is still defending Planned Parenthood, and she is still her party's front-runner. We need a nominee who is going to throw every punch, not pull punches. And someone who cannot stumble before he even gets into the ring. Only someone who will challenge the status quo of Washington, D.C. can lead the resurgence of this great nation. I will do that. 

Good evening, 11 P.M of the East Coast, 11 P.M. in Cleveland where 10 leading Republicans wrapping up their first debate. We'll get live reaction from inside the hall in just a moment. We're also expecting to hear from some of the candidates, live events from around the city. And I'll bring them to you in the next two hours that we are live on the air.

Going in, all odds, the first one, Donald Trump and right from the get go, he made headlines when he said he would not necessarily support any opponents if he isn't the nominee and held open the possibility of running as an independent. That said he was far from the only one on the stage who made remark that caused spark or got people talking.

This evening, we're going to analyze and fact-check what was said tonight. We'll take some -- we'll talk to some of the people taking part of the debate. We'll ask a panel of undecided Republican women about what they saw and heard and we're joined for the next two hours by some of the sharpest political minds in the country.

You know there's no question that Mr. Trump, at many times, looked like he was auditioning for his role as the leading contender and, at times, he was looking at the other nine contenders and saying, "I won," clearly, his body was of I can go either way. I can, you know, take over this debate off and sit here and pretend that I'm interested to hear what the other folks have to say.

There's no question that some of the candidates will fade after tonight. Ben Carson struggled to articulate what...

he stands for. Ted Cruz tried to take over the debate like it was the senate floor. Marco Rubio, did treat it like the senate floor. But, you know, my best moment was the fireworks between Chris Christie and Rand Paul. I cannot wait to see that rewind again. That was testosterone with a little bit of Tabasco and for me I love that part of it.

Well, he came and he was Trump and he was diminished because he was surrounded by people who are solid and knew policy and he looked like the odd man out who doesn't know policy. I also think, you know, when he started by saying I'm not willing to give up on running a third party and when he, you know, when he started making fun about calling women in fat pigs, well, guess what, most women in America look like me. Not like Melania.

Yeah, I think Ben Carson had a bad night, although I didn't expected Ben Carson to come with much substance if you've been watching him over the past few years. He's not big on substance. I think trump looked fairly unserious next to everyone else. I think his stick works really well on the stump. But when asked substantive questions, you know, he doesn't have a lot of answers. And I think that really came into focus with all of this other guys.

I think to hit for the cycle in this debates, you really have to accomplish three things. You have to have a personality moment. You have to make a great substantive point and maybe you get the opportunity to clarify on a pass of misstep. But, on that, I think Chris Christie and Marco Rubio did the best tonight.

They all had. They both have a great personality moment. They have a couple good one liners. I think they made good substantive policy arguments and they got to sort of correct for some of the past maybe mistakes that they've made with conservative voters.

I think Jeb Bush and Scott Walker performed well. They did no harm. I didn't see any mistakes, but I also didn't see a whole lot of movement from them coming out of this debate. So we'll have to see.

The only person I thought who had a terrible night was Rand Paul. I think he looked pretty childish and (inaudible), you know, haranguing Chris Christie for the hug and kind of jumping in when he wasn't asked to. I just don't think he came up looking great.

Although the flip side of that and Jeb, what do you think about this, is, you know, for in a race which Donald Trump has sucked a lot of the oxygen and been able to come as the anti-establishment candidate who has been able to be the outsider, did Chris Christie and maybe even Rand Paul certainly to Rand Paul's base at the very least claim back some of that mental Rand Paul saying I'm a different kind of Republican saying that repeatedly, Chris Christie clearly trying to come across as a strong, tough, kind of guy.

I think that each reinforce their base. I'm not sure that that particularly in Rand Paul's case. I don't think he really got much beyond that. And one of the things that I'd say, as well, and after the 1980 Debate with Ronald Reagan and Jimmy Carter, you know, of course, the Carter people went out right away and said we won.

The media reports tended to give it to Jimmy Carter as well. It wasn't until a day later when the overnight polling fell in. It seemed that the country not seemed but the results were two to one in Reagan's favor so I'm just saying that we're talking about this in the media aftermath. We should really be careful because, you know, the next days...

I think it's pretty mature. I mean I've got a pretty good feeling about where he's at on this and I think tonight I don't think he was ready to raise his hand but I think that he getting to a pretty good place. So I'm not just living in a vacuum here. I'm dealing with the presidency of the United States and whether we're going to be able to win. I talked to Donald Trump often. I think he's getting in a pretty good place. He's not going to raise his hand tonight but I think that -- I think if you give him a little while I think you'll see his hand will go up.

I think the way they're great person. I think we're controlling the entire interest of this country. So it's incumbent upon us to keep that going. It's important for us to try to contain the process and sort of, you know keep it to Jeb's and elbows not killing each other but the whole country is looking at us. They're not looking at the other side in Hillary Clinton. That sort of just boring stuff so I feel good about that. 

Oh absolutely. I mean, Donald Trump has not only millions of followers, billions of dollars in the bank and for Donald Trump not to say I will support the eventual nominee if it's not me, I may not agree but I'm a Republican and this is what you do You fall in line.

Well, I think he's being careful because, you know, we all know what happens. If you get up along side of Donald Trump and I don't think he's want to go there and I think that he is aware that there was some sentiment that the party establishment was on the other side and so, you know, through phone calls and apparently some regular contact here they've gotten back according to Donald Trump himself, you know, in a much better situation so I don't think he wants to, you know, test that.

I think Rand Paul was a loser. I think Ted Cruz also didn't have a terribly good and night. This was a very enthusiastic audience. I think John Kasich did himself some help of course. This is a home turf advantage for Kasich and I can tell you the arena was practically packed with everybody from Ohio. So he had a pack pals of his own team there but I think he did very well.

I think Ben Carson did not help himself. Did not distinguish himself and I think, you know, I think there were some standouts and some people that did not do well most certainly I think Rand Paul and Ted Cruz were lack a lot of steps tonight. And I will tell you, you know, Anderson, the enthusiasm there reminded me so much of the Miami Heat playing in the American Airlines arena and my heart was breaking because this is where LeBron James is playing now.

You know, it's a shame, if not Reince Priebus isn't worried about for Donald Trump, he should be, because if not for Donald Trump I think the thing we would all be talking most right now is John Kasich's great performance, you know, he barely made it into this debate just announced his presidency, Locked into great timing to do it in order to ge to this debate.

And I think he had a really great night and I think that every GOP contender should study his answer on the gay marriage question. It was a phenomenally compassionate but convicted answer and I think really represented himself in the party well. So it's not for Trump and maybe it's not for the Chris Christie, Rand Paul amazing sparring match. I think his would be the lead to lead story out of this debate tonight.

The first republican debate of campaign 2016 now history, history and a whole lot of headlines to talk about tonight. Donald Trump made plenty of them, but by no means, all of them. Here are some of the most important moments. Take a look.

In the audience. I mean, the republican base so badly wants a win in 2016. We've been in the wilderness, been locked out of the White House. The fact that he would potentially sabotage that chance because of essentially his ego, I think he's going to tank in the polls because of that, and you couple his horrible answers about the insults he's levied toward women. As a -- you know, as conservative republican woman, I was dreading the fact they hit the potentially be the nominee given his history of saying things against women. I mean, talk about two huge weapons you could be giving Hillary Clinton to win the White House. The fact that he would potentially run a third-party bid and that he stands by his terrible comments by women, and threatening the female host of the debates. I mean, that's just paving the way for Hillary Clinton to go into the White House.

Well, I mean, no. Right out of the starting gate, you know, Chris Wallace asked all the candidates to raise their hand and rule out running as an independent. And the only one that wouldn't rule it out is Donald Trump. I mean I think if anything all these people have been saying that Donald Trump is a truth teller, that what he's saying, you know, speaks to the people in their party. Well, I mean I think they should take him at his word. He may run as an independent if he isn't eventually the nominee. That just is emblematic, Anderson, of the chaos that continues to rule in the Republican Party today. They are still in the midst of a civil war, and that causes them huge problems.

Well, I mean, right out of the starting gate of the first Republican debate, you have the candidate that is the front- runner, raise his hand and say that he might run as an independent, you know, if he's not the nominee. I mean, that shows you that unity is not something that they're finding easy to come by and then you have only to have listened to their debate tonight to see how they took really hard pot shots at one another. And I feel for Reince Priebus, my counterpart at the RNC, because the reason that he initially wanted to shrink the number of debates is so that he could reduce the exposure that the American people have to the extremism that was on full display by the Republican candidates for president tonight.

I mean, absolutely. The misogyny that was on full display, that not a single one of the other Republican candidates for president criticized or called Donald Trump on, you know, or any one of the other comments that they made that were troubling to women, you know, the fact that they want to roll back women's access to health care, the fact that they aren't for equal pay for equal work, they're not for focusing on making sure that, you know, everybody has an opportunity to reach the middle class. Those are all issues important to women, and add layer on top of that, the misogyny that none of them criticized. You know, for me the winner of tonight's debate was the eventual Democratic nominee because I think they will ultimately go on to be president of the United States when we have a general election in which the contrast is very clear. Our nominee will be for working families and helping people reach the middle class and the Republicans will continue to double down on the extremism that we saw tonight. 

All right. Congressman Wasserman Schultz, I appreciate you being on. Just ahead, a fact check on some of what was said on stage tonight. Tonight, Tom Foreman joins us with that. Iowa, the first state to hold caucuses as the campaign season heats up. Joe Johns watched the debate with voters there. We'll hear from them next.

So you see his basic claim there that Florida was better off, and his numbers are generally right. They did create jobs. They did cut some of the spending there, that sort of thing -- but this is kind of tricky -- when you think about this, they had a long-term debt when he came in of $16.8 billion. And in an effort to contain other spending, when they wanted to build new roads and bridges and schools, they borrowed the money selling bonds and that pushed that long-term debt from $16.8 billion up to around $23 billion around the time he was leaving office. Fiscal conservatives don't like that much. And they would also argue Florida was not better off for that.

Worth noting, Chris Christie made some sort of similar claims about what happened -- what he did in New Jersey, which also didn't mention the dark cloud to the silver lining. So in the end, if you look at just the numbers, you can see that Jeb Bush did something that was true but it was misleading. And it's like so many of the things we heard tonight, Anderson. What they didn't talk about is the part that we needed to hear if you wanted a full picture.

Our country is in serious trouble. We don't win anymore. We don't beat China in trade. We don't beat Japan with their millions and millions of cars coming into this country in trade. We can't beat Mexico at the border or in trade. We can't do anything right. Our military has to be strengthened. Our vets have to be taken care of. We have to end the ObamaCare, and we have to make our country great again, and I will do that. Thank you.


